Let's start at the beginning.
What are Oracles?
So Oracles are gateways used by smart contracts to interact with the outside world.
As you may know, smart contracts run on the blockchain
and don't have access to anything that is outside the blockchain.
They need a mechanism by which they can fetch data from the outside world,
whether that is the price of stock if it's something like that,
or perhaps the shipping information,
anything that your smart contract needs.
Any data that is otherwise not available on
the blockchain has to be acquired by way of some mechanism,
and that mechanism is a gateway called an Oracle.
The basic architecture of an Oracle is that
you have your smart contract and you have the Oracle,
one or more Oracles as the case may be
depending on the specific scenario you're looking at,
and your smart contract triggers a request for the Oracle.
The Oracle then parses that request,
understands what it is,
fetches the data as appropriate from an API that it might have access to.
It then packages the data in this specific way as required by your smart contract,
and then submits it back to the smart contract as a transaction.
That's a very high level overview.
We'll be going deep into
this exact process today and you'll be able to understand that much better.
Let's look at a few examples of Oracles.
The first one is flight insurance.
In fact that one is is relevant to this project because the project we are going to
be doing is called flight surety which we'll talk about in the next couple of lessons.
The idea here is that passengers could potentially
purchase insurance and if their flight is delayed or canceled,
then they're automatically paid instead of having to go through
customer service and some process that involves filling forms and such.
Oracles are also used in shipping.
One of the key things that is required in shipping
is tracing of packages which can be done via GPS.
But the problem is that GPS with most devices can be spoofed.
So a secure Oracle that can provide your smart contract with guaranteed assurance
of location would be a good thing and
would help ensure the integrity of the data that's on there.
Another example is finance.
You might have a smart contract that relies on fetching the current price of ethereum.
You might also have the need to transact and convert from
cryptocurrencies to fiat currencies in which case you would
need to know what the current exchange rate is.
So in all those scenarios,
your smart contract does not have the ability to fetch the data
itself and it needs and relies on an Oracle to do so.
Now while we're on the topic of examples of Oracles and
talking about some of these real-world scenarios,
you'll want to know that there is
an emerging class of companies called Oracles-as-a-service.
Although we won't talk about them in more detail today,
this is a very nascent industry.
The purpose of these businesses is to provide
an out-of-the-box solution that has handled most of
the technical challenges related to Oracles.
So I would encourage after this lesson is
done for you to look up and study up on some of those.
The reason that we don't cover them here is
because they're so fluid and there is no clear market leader.
So it would not behoove us to talk in detail
about a company or a technology that might not be around tomorrow,
but there's a lot of exciting technology being developed and
it would be a great idea for you to look it up.